In this video we're going to start to refactor our index not J.S. file and get it ready for a maze.
So we've got some code inside of here right now for that quick little demo.
I'm going to delete a lot of the code related to this demo.
So if you want to you can always make a copy or a backup of the index not just file as it is right now.
So you still have access to the code for the demo but I don't really need that code anymore so I got
to delete some of the stuff in here related to creating all those different shapes so inside my index
dot J.S. file first get started by finding where we created that mouse constraint right here.
Remember this is what allowed us to do some click and drag on each of those different shapes our maze
program is not going to have any click and drag functionality.
So going to delete all that mouse related stuff I'll also go back up to the top and delete the two D
structures we have for the mouse related stuff so mouse constraint and mouse.
Next up I'll go down to the very bottom where we create our random shapes so I don't need any random
shapes anymore.
It's going to take everything from that comment down to the very bottom and delete it.
All right.
Now the last thing I want to change really quickly when we're refactor we go back up a little bit you'll
notice we've got the height and width right here.
I'm going to change the width to be exactly equal to the height.
So 600 by 600.
The reason for this is that some of the logic around our maze actually ends up being a lot easier to
write if we have a perfectly square maze so as tall as it is wide as soon as we start to get a rectangular
maze some of the math gets just slightly more complicated so we're going to first build a version of
our maze that works perfectly with it being square and we're going to eventually refactor it to be rectangular
in nature as well.
Ultimately we're going to make sure that the maze spans the entire size of this window.
So like from this top left corner down here to the bottom right.
But for the first implementation we're gonna have it fixed as just 600 by 600
now with the 600 by 600.
That means we also have to update the placement of some of our different walls because these walls currently
rely upon a 600 by me at eight hundred by six hundred canvas.
So now we have to go through here and update some these values.
I want you to recall that one of the reasons I said that we would create the height and with various
villas up here is to just have the ability to change these numbers right here and have all the appropriate
variables inside of our file update.
So as we start to rewrite or update some the numbers inside of here rather than using fixed values like
four hundred six hundred eight hundred I'm going to instead have these numbers be references back up
to the height and with variables up the top.
So in other words we're going to have our walls laid themselves out automatically based upon the overall
dimensions of our canvas.
So that means that we will only have to do this one more update and then as we start to change these
numbers later on as we want to test out different shapes of mazes all of our different walls will relay
themselves out appropriately without us messing around with this code at all so we're gonna go through
here and update each of these rectangles.
We're gonna have as you fixed constant numbers as possible so let's get to it.
The first rectangle we created represented the top rectangle.
So that's this one up here at the very top edge.
Remember the first number represents the distance from the top left coordinate to the center of that
rectangle.
So that's essentially the width of our canvas divided by two.
Then the second number or the second argument represents how many units down from that top left corner.
In this case we are zero units down then the third number was the total width of that rectangle which
would be the width of the canvas once again.
And then the height of that rectangle we're going to leave the 40s in here as 40s but we might eventually
extract them to be assigned by a variable as well.
All the other numbers inside of here are going to be either zeros or a can function based upon our height
and our width so let's do these updates.
So the first one right here again that's going to be our width divided by two because we're going to
go from the top left halfway over to right there.
So that's the entire with divide by two then the second argument will continue to be zero because we're
going zero units down the entire width of that rectangle is going to be width and then its height will
just be 40.
Like I said we'll leave that as a constant value inside of here for now the next rectangle is the one
at the bottom of the edge.
So bottom edge of the canvas.
That right there.
So in this case we're going to once again go over width divided by two units but we're going to go down
height units so the entire height of the canvas we're gonna go down the height of the canvas.
But once again go over to the right with divided by two and I'll go down height units the width will
once again be width and the height of the thing itself will be 40.
It's the next one the third rectangle that we created was the left hand wall.
So in this case we are going to the right 0 units.
So essentially staying in the same plane or going down height divided by two that still give me zero
going to have height.
Divide by two
the width of this thing is going to be 40 and the overall height of the shape itself or the height units
in other words the entire height of the canvas then finally we've got the right hand rectangle as well.
So with this one we want to go over the entire width of the canvas.
We want to go down with divided by two we're seeing height divided by two.
That's better and then the entire height of that rectangle will be height so same height as the canvas
itself.
So let's save this going to go back over and refresh and there we go.
So I've now got a square canvas.
The walls are kind of hard to see here just because the color is not that distinct.
So if I wanted to I could disable wire frames mode so I could ask me I can enable wire frames mode so
I can set that to true refresh.
And now those walls are a little bit easier to see.
So as you can guess the benefit to this approach is that we can now change height with as much as we
want.
So for example I could go back to a hundred by six hundred and the walls are going to adjust themselves
automatically I can go to twelve hundred by six hundred.
I can go to twelve hundred by I don't know five or about one hundred whatever doesn't matter at the
end of the day the walls are going to lay themselves out appropriately we're going to try to write out
code like this as much as possible because again later on as we decide to mess around us on the different
values inside of here it's gonna be a lot easier to change one number at the top as opposed to messing
with a ton of code as we create all the different shapes so it looks good.
Let's take a pause right here and continue in the next video.